[How to? pattern articles] Add record screen article (#8889)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/patterns/media/screen-record/index.md

---
layout: pattern

> title: How to record screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to record the user's screen
```

date: 2022-10-14
authors:
  - beaufortfrancois
description: >

>   Learn how to record screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Learn how to record the user's screen.
```

height: 800
---

> Sharing tabs, windows, and screens is already possible on the web platform with the [Screen Capture API](https://w3c.github.io/mediacapture-screen-share/). In short, `getDisplayMedia()` allows the user to select a screen to capture as a media stream. This stream can then be recorded with [MediaRecorder](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/mediarecorder/) or shared with others over the network. [showOpenFilePicker()](/file-system-access/) allows us finally to save the recording file locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sharing tabs, windows, and screens is possible on the web platform with the [Screen Capture API](https://w3c.github.io/mediacapture-screen-share/). The `getDisplayMedia()` method allows the user to select a screen to capture as a media stream. This stream can then be recorded with the [MediaRecorder API](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/mediarecorder/) or shared with others over the network. The recording can be saved to a local file via the [`showOpenFilePicker()`](/file-system-access/) method.
```

> The example below shows how user's screen can be recorded as webm content, locally previewed on the same page, and saved to the local file system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below shows how the user's screen can be recorded in the WebM format, locally previewed on the same page, and saved to the local file system.
```

```js
let recorder;

shareScreenButton.addEventListener("click", async () => {

>   // Prompt user to share their screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Prompt the user to share their screen.
```

  const stream = await navigator.mediaDevices.getDisplayMedia();
  recorder = new MediaRecorder(stream);

>   // Preview screen locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Preview the screen locally.
```

  video.srcObject = stream;
});

> startRecordButton.addEventListener("click", async () => {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stopShareScreenButton.addEventListener("click", () => {
  const tracks = video.srcObject.getTracks();
  tracks.forEach((track) => track.stop());
  video.srcObject = null;
  recorder = null;
});

startRecordButton.addEventListener("click", async () => {
```

>   // For the sake of more legible code, it only uses the
>   // showSaveFilePicker() method. In production, you need to
>   // cater for browsers that don't support this method, as
>   // outlined in https://web.dev/patterns/files/save-a-file/.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // For the sake of more legible code, this sample only uses the
  // `showSaveFilePicker()` method. In production, you need to
  // cater for browsers that don't support this method, as
  // outlined in https://web.dev/patterns/files/save-a-file/.
```

>   // Prompt user to choose where to save the recording file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Prompt the user to choose where to save the recording file.
```

>   const suggestedName = "screen-record.webm";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const suggestedName = "screen-recording.webm";
```

  const handle = await window.showSaveFilePicker({ suggestedName });
  const writable = await handle.createWritable();

  // Start recording.
  recorder.start();
  recorder.addEventListener("dataavailable", async (event) => {
    // Write chunks to the file.
    await writable.write(event.data);

>     if (recorder.state == "inactive") {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    if (recorder.state === "inactive") {
```

>       // Close file when recording stops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // Close the file when the recording stops.
```

      await writable.close();
    }
  });
});

stopRecordButton.addEventListener("click", () => {

>   // Stop recording.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Stop the recording.
```

  recorder.stop();
});
```

## Browser support

### MediaDevices.getDisplayMedia()

{% BrowserCompat 'api.MediaDevices.getDisplayMedia' %}

### MediaRecorder API

{% BrowserCompat 'api.MediaRecorder' %}

### File System Access API's showSaveFilePicker()

{% BrowserCompat 'api.Window.showOpenFilePicker' %}

## Further reading

- [W3C Screen Capture Specification](https://w3c.github.io/mediacapture-screen-share/)
- [W3C MediaStream Recording Specification](https://w3c.github.io/mediacapture-record/#mediarecorder-api)
- [WICG File System Access Specification](https://wicg.github.io/file-system-access/)

> ## Demo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Demo

```

---
layout: pattern
title: How to record the user's screen
date: 2022-10-14
authors:
  - beaufortfrancois
description: >
  Learn how to record the user's screen.
height: 800
---

> Sharing tabs, windows, and screens is possible on the web platform with the [Screen Capture API](https://w3c.github.io/mediacapture-screen-share/). The `getDisplayMedia()` method allows the user to select a screen to capture as a media stream. This stream can then be recorded with the [MediaRecorder API](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/mediarecorder/) or shared with others over the network. The recording can be saved to a local file via the [`showOpenFilePicker()`](/file-system-access/) method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sharing tabs, windows, and screens is possible on the web platform with the [Screen Capture API](https://w3c.github.io/mediacapture-screen-share/). The [`getDisplayMedia()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getDisplayMedia) method allows the user to select a screen to capture as a media stream. This stream can then be recorded with the [MediaRecorder API](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/mediarecorder/) or shared with others over the network. The recording can be saved to a local file via the [`showOpenFilePicker()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/showOpenFilePicker) method.
```

> The example below shows how the user's screen can be recorded in the WebM format, locally previewed on the same page, and saved to the local file system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below shows how you can record the user's screen in the WebM format, locally preview on the same page, and save the recording to the user's file system.
```

```js
let stream;
let recorder;

shareScreenButton.addEventListener("click", async () => {
  // Prompt the user to share their screen.
  stream = await navigator.mediaDevices.getDisplayMedia();
  recorder = new MediaRecorder(stream);
  // Preview the screen locally.
  video.srcObject = stream;
});

stopShareScreenButton.addEventListener("click", () => {

>   // Stop stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Stop the stream.
```
